In this video I'll explain the fear of fault tolerance of fault tolerance can be used to provide 100
percent uptime for critical virtual machines and fault tolerance has undergone some significant changes
in vees fair six in that it actually protects virtual machine data so we can have no data loss no transaction
loss or TCAP connection loss the primary virtue machine is protected by mirroring it to a secondary
virtual machine that's running on another ESX host and the secondary VM is kept exactly the same as
the primary so that we can easily fail over to the secondary with no downtime
if the primary virtue machine fails the secondary takes over and becomes the primary and then a new
secondary VM is spawned on a different host to protect that new primary VM.
A second day early data store can also be selected to store their files for the secondary VM protecting
our virtual machine from data loss should the primary virtue machines data store fail.
Fault tolerance supports up to two virtual C.P. with VSE for standard and up to four virtual Sipah use
on Enterprise.
Plus it supports VM ocean on the primary and secondary VM and it supports thin provisioned or thick
provisioned virtual disks.
This is another change since vse fair 5.5 Envy's for sex.
We have all these different disk types supported and we have multiday VCP to support it requires high
availability and enhanced emotion compatibility to be configured on the cluster.
So let's take a look at how fault tolerance works.
We have a primary virtue machine and a secondary virtual machine.
And in order to get this running we need to create a fault tolerant logging network to keep the primary
VM and the secondary VM identical.
We'll do this by configuring a VM kernel port and configuring it for fault tolerance logging traffic.
Then I will enable fault tolerance on a primary virtual machine which will result in the secondary VM
being created.
You can also choose a data store when you configure fault tolerance to keep a copy of the virtual machine
files on some other data store for that secondary VM.
So now we have a primary and a secondary VM and also a copy of those virtual machine files on two different
datasource and asked changes happened on the primary VM.
They were immediately copied into memory on the secondary virtual machine so that those virtual machines
are kept in the exact identical state and this is very helpful when we have a failure like an ESX host
failure for example.
So here ESX 0 1 is failed and there is an instantaneous immediate fail over to the secondary via Now
the secondary VM is going to become the primary virtual machine and a new secondary will be created
on one of the other surviving hosts to report Takht this virtual machine.
Now one thing that this doesn't protect you from is a guest operating system problem.
So let's say within the primary virtual machine we get the Windows Blue Screen of Death while the contents
of memory on that primary VM are going to be immediately copy did the secondary via So the Windows Blue
Screen of Death will appear there as well.
All right so there are certain types of failures that fall tolerance doesn't really protect you from.